 Python, spaCy, NLTK, NumPy, Pandas, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, NLP-Natural Language Processing, Tensorflow2, Detectron2, Tesseract, OpenCV, Flask, and Django
 
 spacy- 
 NLTK - 
 
 NLP:
 Automation summarization
 Machine Translation
 NER(Named entity recognition)
 Relationship extraction
 Sentimental Analysis
 Speech Recognition
 Topic Segmentations
 
 Making Appointments
 Buying Things
 Spell Checking
 Generating Response
 Social Media Monitoring
 
 Keyword search
 Information Extraction
 Sentimental 
 Speech Recognition
 Chatbot
 Machine Translation

NLU, NLG

50 corpora and Lexical resources such as wordnet
Suite of text processing libraries for classification, tokenization, stemming , tagging 

nltk.download

tokens

word_tokenize
FreqDist function

nltk.probability import FreqDist

fdist
len

fdist.most_common()
blankline_tokenize

Bigrams - Tokens of 2 consecutive written words.
Trigrams - Tokens of 3 consecutive written words.

Stemming- Normalize words into its base form (affect - affection etc)

PorterStemmer
stem('having') 

LancasterStemmer - more aggresive than Porter stemmer , to check how many times the word giv is used, use LancasterStemmer
SnowBall Stemmer

Stemming Does not always result in giving us the root word.
fish, fishes, fishing - fish

Lemmetization - Considers the morphological analysis of the word
It needs to have a detailed dictionary for the algorithm to look into to link the form back to its lemma.

Output of Lemmatization is a proper word.

wordnet - this is the dictionary
WordNetLemmetizer()

POS tags and descriptions
Parts of Speech(noun , pronoun , adjective, adverb)

Stop Words

Using POS tags
"is eating" is considered as a single term.
This is one of the shortcomings of POS tags when it comes to tying the words.

NER - Named Entity Recognition
The process of detecting the names entities.
Steps in NER
1. Noun phrase identification - extracts all the noun phrases from the text using dependency passing and POS tagging
2. Phrase classification - location , names and much more
Or one can create a look up table and dictionary by combining information from different sources
3. Entity disambiguation

Sometimes its possible that the entities are misclassified. Hence creating a validation layer - The result is very useful

The use of knowledge Graphs can be exploited for this purpose.
Google Knowledge Graphs
IBM Watson
Wikipedia.

ne_chunck

Syntax Tree - Phase Structure Rules.(you can use POS tags and Dictionary to create a Syntax Tree)

We created a Syntax tree for the input sentence.

Inorder to render syntax trees in your notebook, you need to install GhostScript.

Detectron2:
Dense Pose Prediction
Panoptic Segmentation (Task that segments both instances and background pixels)

Backbone of CNN layers:
Resnet+ShuffleNet+FBNet

Backbone-->> Region Proposals --->>Crop and wrap (Box, Mask, Keypoint, DensePose, Semantic Segmentation)

Customizations:
modify registry

Predecessors: Mask R-CNN, Panoptic FPN, DensePose, Mesh R-CNN

Docker is fixing the environment standardization
Isolation, Portability
Build once , deploy anywhere

WSGI- Webserver Gateway interface.

Apache , Azure, AWS webserver

A Swagger API- Flasgger library to create a frontend simple application.

Flask :
Load the classifier as a Pickle file

@app.route('/') --> use this decorator
This is my welcome page

from flasgger import Swagger
Toolbox releases

Docker Commands:
Docker file has these commands -- From, copy, expose, workdir, run, cmd
Base Image - OS , Ubuntu

Network Interface:

Write the docker file
Building the docker Image
























 
 
 
 